---

layout: post
title: NBA Season Wizard
subtitle: Predicting NBA season player percentages
bigimg: img/bball.jpg
image: 
gh-repo: mpHarm88/pred_nba
gh-badge: [star, watch, fork, follow]

---



# NBA Season Wizard

The N.B.A. (National Basketball Association) has a season where 30 teams of 15 athletes compete throughout 82 regular-season 
games. Every player doesn't get to play all 82 games and deciding who plays in which regulation game can be one of the 
toughest decisions to make when the game is close and time is running out.

I set out to try and solve this problem by using a data set that consisted of most players from 1950-2017 and a goal in 
mind of using this data to predict if it was possible to know how much of a season an athlete should play given prior 
stats of similar athletes. 

#### The Results
What I came up with was a predictive model that tells us what percentage of a season a player should play dependent on 𝟕 features:

- Blocks (BLK) - "A block occurs when an offensive player attempts a shot, and the defense player tips the ball, blocking their chance to score."
- Steals (STL) - "Number of times a defensive player or team takes the ball from a player on offense, causing a turnover."
- Age - The player's age during the season.
- Assists (AST) - "The number of assists -- passes that lead directly to a made basket -- by a player."
- Total Rebounds (TRB) - The total amount of rebounds made by the player during the entire season.
- Points (PTS) - "The number of points scored"
- Position (Pos) - What position they played throughout the season.

I use the newly made statistic and compare it to the number of games the player played. 

When my model predicted more games than seen, I concluded that the player had been underutilized during the season. 

When it predicted fewer games than seen, I concluded my model determined the player to be over utilized. The player 
may have played more games than supposed too dependent on the 𝟕 features and compared across ~26,000 observations.
